_pages/bookmarks.md, before:

---
layout: single
class: wide
permalink: /bookmarks/
author_profile: true
---

A curated list of interesting links and resources I've found across the web.

## Engineering

**Forecasting**
- [Hyndsight](https://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/): Blog by Rob Hyndman, a leading expert in time series analysis.
- [Time Series Analysis and Its Applications](http://www.stat.ucla.edu/~frederic/415/S23/tsa4.pdf): A comprehensive book for time series analysis.
- [Forecasting: Principles and Practice (3rd ed)](https://otexts.com/fpp3/): A compact book for time series forecasting.
  - Great content for hierarchical or grouped time series.
- [To Explain or to Predict?](https://projecteuclid.org/journals/statistical-science/volume-25/issue-3/To-Explain-or-to-Predict/10.1214/10-STS330.full): Clear distinction between Explanatory and Predictive modeling.
  - [My summary](../_posts/2025-07-16-ExplanatoryvsPredictiveModeling.md)

**Machine Learning**
- [Interpretable Machine Learning](https://originalstatic.aminer.cn/misc/pdf/Molnar-interpretable-machine-learning_compressed.pdf): the Bible of interpretability. It’s been cited everywhere, even in scikit-learn’s docs.

**Data Engineering**
- TBA

## Ideas & Essays

- [Samaltman](https://blog.samaltman.com/reflections): Founder of OpenAI.
- [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/): The pulse of the tech world.
- [Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy](https://plato.stanford.edu/): A comprehensive and authoritative resource.
- [Aeon](https://aeon.co/): Profound and provocative essays on philosophy, science, and culture.
- [Brain Pickings (The Marginalian)](https://www.themarginalian.org/): Maria Popova's exploration of what it means to live a good life.
- [Wait But Why](https://waitbutwhy.com/): Deep dives into a wide range of topics that make you think.

## Strategy & Growth

- [Stratechery by Ben Thompson](https://stratechery.com/): Deep analysis of tech and business strategy.
- [First Round Review](https://review.firstround.com/): Actionable insights for building great companies.
- [James Clear](https://jamesclear.com/): Practical advice on habits and self-improvement.
- [Farnam Street (FS.blog)](https://fs.blog/): Mastering the best of what other people have already figured out.
- [Radical Candor](https://radicalcandor.com/): A book by Kim Scott on the psychology of decision making building trust and respect in the workplace.

Commit message:

forecasting materials, diet in old links

_pages/bookmarks.md, after:

---
layout: single
class: wide
permalink: /bookmarks/
author_profile: true
---

A curated list of interesting links and resources I've found across the web.

## Engineering

**Forecasting**
- [Hyndsight](https://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/): Blog by Rob Hyndman, a leading expert in time series analysis.
- [Time Series Analysis and Its Applications](http://www.stat.ucla.edu/~frederic/415/S23/tsa4.pdf): A comprehensive book for time series analysis.
- [Forecasting: Principles and Practice (3rd ed)](https://otexts.com/fpp3/): A compact book for time series forecasting.
  - Great content for hierarchical or grouped time series.
- [To Explain or to Predict?](https://projecteuclid.org/journals/statistical-science/volume-25/issue-3/To-Explain-or-to-Predict/10.1214/10-STS330.full): Clear distinction between Explanatory and Predictive modeling.
  - [My summary](../_posts/2025-07-16-ExplanatoryvsPredictiveModeling.md)
- [Ranking a Random Feature for Variable and Feature Selection](https://jmlr.org/papers/volume3/stoppiglia03a/stoppiglia03a.pdf): Probes—random variables added to compare feature importance—offer an intuitive feature selection method, but their effectiveness depends on handling correlations and cardinality, making them more common in competitions like Kaggle than in industry for simplicity.
- [A Note on the Validity of Cross-Validation for Evaluating Time Series Prediction](https://www.monash.edu/business/econometrics-and-business-statistics/research/publications/ebs/wp10-15.pdf): if the lag structure of the models is correctly set up (in autoregression models), or, the lag features are created correctly, then **normal k-fold crossvalidation can be used to evaluate** your forecasting models.
- [On Hyperparameter Optimization of Machine Learning Algorithms: Theory and Practice](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2007.15745): Great summary of how best to optimize hyperparameters based on dataset size and algorithm complexity.


**Machine Learning**
- [Interpretable Machine Learning](https://originalstatic.aminer.cn/misc/pdf/Molnar-interpretable-machine-learning_compressed.pdf): the Bible of interpretability. It’s been cited everywhere, even in scikit-learn’s docs.

**Data Engineering**
- TBA

## Ideas & Essays

- [Samaltman](https://blog.samaltman.com/reflections): Founder of OpenAI.
- [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/): The pulse of the tech world.
- [Aeon](https://aeon.co/): Profound and provocative essays on philosophy, science, and culture.
- [Brain Pickings (The Marginalian)](https://www.themarginalian.org/): Maria Popova's exploration of what it means to live a good life.

## Strategy & Growth

- [Stratechery by Ben Thompson](https://stratechery.com/): Deep analysis of tech and business strategy.
- [First Round Review](https://review.firstround.com/): Actionable insights for building great companies.
- [Farnam Street (FS.blog)](https://fs.blog/): Mastering the best of what other people have already figured out.
- [Radical Candor](https://radicalcandor.com/): Psychology of decision making building trust and respect in the workplace.
