---
layout: single
classes: wide
title:  "Variables affecting human behaviors"
date: 2022-05-16
tags:
    - Philosophy
---

One of the most common topics to start a conversation is the weather. <br />
Weather is changing periodically so that people know how the average weather looks like for each different month. <br />
I have lived in Germany for 3 years and have noticed that people’s behavior as well as attitude differs significantly based on the weather condition. <br />
Life in Saarland has been more than half year but I couldn’t make local friends. Probably covid and gloomy winter weather affected a lot. Probably wearing a mask affects more than if there is prevalent covid or not.  <br />
People (or any living creature) tend to open to others who have a common in different environments. <br />
For example, if I met Korean in international tech forum, then we (the Korean and I) could feel a sense of sharing a value. <br />
However, I met Korean in Korean church in Germany, then we are don’t feel a sense of special community.  <br />
Likewise, wearing mask reduce the chance of feeling “same”. <br />
These stories could be a cliché, but here’s the reason why I introduce it. How can you use this principle to connect with right people?  <br />
However different you and I, there must be a sense of common parts by emphasizing different environments. Some could criticize that you shouldn’t gather with similar people.  <br />
Difference makes society stronger. <br />
It is absolutely right, but what decide if different or same?  <br />
It depends again what is the variable we consider to decide the degree of difference.  <br />
Whomever different is she/he, first find common parts, and second define different environment.
